# S3  

S3 providers developers and IT teams with secure, durable, highly-scalable object storage. Amazon S3 is easy to use, with a simple web service interface to store and retrieve any amount of data from anywhere on the web.  

**What is S3?**  

* S3 is a safe place to store your files;  
* It is Object-based storage;  
* The data is spread across multiple devices and facilities;  

**S3 - Basic**  

* S3 is Object-storage;  
* Files can be from 0 Bytes to 5 TB;
* There is unlimited storage;  
* Files are stored in Buckets(Buckets are folder inside the cloud);  
* S3 is a universal namespace. That is, names must be unique globally;  
* When you upload a file to S3, you will receive a HTTP 200 code if the upload was successful;  
* Read after write consistency for PUTS of new Objects;  
* Eventual consistency for overwrite PUTS and DELETS(can take some time to propagate);  
* S3 is A Simple Key-value Store;  
  * Key = This is simply the name of the object;  
  * Value = This is simply the data and is made up of a sequence of bytes;  
  * Version ID = Important for versioning;  
  * Metadata = Data about data you are storing;  
  * Subresources:  
    * ACL = Access Control Lists;  
    * torrent;

**S3 - Security and Warranty**  

* Built for 99,99% availability for the S3 platform;  
* Amazon guarantee 99,9% availability;  
* Amazon guarantee 99,9999999999% durability for S3 information.(11x 9s);  
* Tiered Storage Available;  
* Lifecycle Management;  
* Versioning;  
* Encryption;  
* Secure your data using ACL(Access Control List) and Bucket Policies;  

### Storage Tiers/Classes  

**S3 Standard**  
99,99% availability, 99,9999999999% durability, stored redundantly across multiple devices in multiple facilities, and is designed to sustain the loss of 2 facilities concurrently.  

**S3 IA(Infrequently Acessed)**  

For data that is accessed less frequently, but requires rapid access when needed. Lower fee that S3, but you are charged  a retrieval fee.  

**S3 One Zone - IA**  

Want a lower-cost aption for infrequently accessed data, but do not require the multiple **Availability Zone** data resilience.

**Glacier**  

Very cheap, but used for archival only. Expedited, Standard or Bulk. A Standard retrieval time takes 3 - 5 hours.  

[IMG about s3]  


### S3 Charger  

**Charges for...**  

* Storage;  
* Requests;  
* Storage Management Pricing;  
* Data Transfer Pricing;  
* Transfer Acceleration:  
  * Transfer Acceleration enables fast, easy, and secure transfers of files over long distances between your end users and S3 Bucket.

  [IMG about transfer Acceleration]


Read S3 FAQ
